Week 3 Topics (3/22)

Previously
  HTML Document Structure
  Paragraphs
  Headings
  Comments
  Emphasis
  Lists
  Images

This Week
  Layout
    Previously, we've covered how to markup most of your usual content. Now, we'll wrap and contain our content in order to lay it out with CSS.

    All quotes below taken directly from the HTML5 spec which defines how these tags should be used. http://www.w3.org/TR/html5/sections.html

    Header
      "The header element represents a group of introductory or navigational aids" Think title, logo, navigation, the stuff that repeats on every page.

    Footer
      "A footer typically contains information about its section such as who wrote it, links to related documents, copyright data, and the like" Think of it as the content you want repeated at the end of every page.

    Article
      "The article element represents a self-contained composition in a document, page, application, or site and that is, in principle, independently distributable or reusable, e.g. in syndication." Think an individual blog post or article in a newspaper.

    Section
      "The section element represents a generic section of a document or application." Think about sections of a newspaper (e.g. Sports or Finance) or sections of a paper (e.g. Introduction or Conclusion). "A general rule is that the section element is appropriate only if the element's contents would be listed explicitly in the document's outline."

      Articles can contain sections (e.g. intro and conclusion). Sections can contain articles (e.g. articles in the sports section of a newspaper). It totally depends on your content (and somewhat your personal preference and interpretation).

    Aside
      "The aside element represents a section of a page that consists of content that is tangentially related to the content around the aside element, and which could be considered separate from that content. Such sections are often represented as sidebars in printed typography." Think ads on the right side of a blog.

    Nav
      "The nav element represents a section of a page that links to other pages or to parts within the page: a section with navigation links." We didn't cover this explicitly, but hopefully it makes sense how it fits in with the other layout elements of the page.

    Div
      "The div element has no special meaning at all. It represents its children. It can be used with the class, lang, and title attributes to mark up semantics common to a group of consecutive elements.

      Authors are strongly encouraged to view the div element as an element of last resort, for when no other element is suitable. Use of the div element instead of more appropriate elements leads to poor accessibility for readers and poor maintainability for authors."

      To help choose appropriate elements, here's a flowchart! http://html5doctor.com/downloads/h5d-sectioning-flowchart.pdf

  Links
    Now that we're writing so much markup, it would be helpful if we could keep separate documents and link them together. That's where links come in and make the internet work.

    a
      The 'a' tag stands for 'anchor' and commonly has an 'href' attribute. If you don't have anywhere to link to yet, it's perfectly valid to leave it out. You can think of 'href' as meaning 'hyperlink reference' since it defines where a user would go if they click the link.

      Next week we'll cover more of the finer details of 'href' to show you how to link to other websites, HTML files, and different types of media like text files, audio, and video.
